# Future-Engineers-2022
Our solution for the problem is to design a robot with a lot of precision and speed. We have decided to work with spike prime as it showed to be more accurate and has sufficient speed. Since the Spike is not able to do big bulks of processing we decided to use an arduino for the processing linking it to the spike prime using Uart. For our steering we are using a rack in the pinyard steering system. It proved to keep the robot more straight since there is less play which works in our favour because we want the robot to be as straight as possible. We have also kept the centre of mass of the robot to the back to ensure that we have good contact of the wheels on the surface to avoid slippage and the robot lifting. We have an ultrasonic sensor in the front of the robot, the ultrasonic sensor is used for when the robot is going close to the wall to possibly hit it then the ultrasonic will sense that it is going too close to the wall and with the help of the gyro turn the other way. We also have a colour sensor under the robot more to the front for if the robot sees the line it knows which direction it is going. We also use the colour sensor for the turn when the colour sensor sees the line it triggers the turn which is made using the gyro.

The good thing about spike is that it has an amazing gyro which we use for turns. All our turns are made using the gyro which is very accurate. The motor’s too have a built in gyro which works in our aid for keeping the robot as straight as possible. We use two large motors, one for the steering and one for the power. We use large motors because the medium motors tend to not have fluent movement and lack power.

For detecting the blocks we decided to use the Pixy 2 Camera we set signatures for the different blocks (green and red) . We have the arduino doing the processing for the camera and ultrasonic then sending the information to the spike prime environment for executing. We had to solder our own cable for the Camera and ultrasonic because the camera is not necessarily compatible with the spike so we had to make a tweeks for it to be able to work, same goes for the ultrasonic since it is a arduino ultrasonic since the spike’s ultrasonic is not very accurate and is not good at taking readings that are far. 
 
For the coding of the spike prime and arduino we are using Python spike uses micro python which we don't find very convenient. The spike prime environment is very user friendly therefore we were able to quickly learn and adapt to using python rather than the Ev3 coding software. We had to learn a lot as a team since we did not all know python so a lot of hard work had to be put in which was all worth it in the end.

Our design is very modular which is convenient for us if it is needed, if small changes are needed to be made which is very unlikely. That is one of the reasons why we decided to go for spike prime since the whole spike kit is amazing for modular design. We had to link our Spike prime design to be able to accommodate the arduino and its external power supply. We are using a power bank to power the arduino. The arduino needs at least 5V of power, the way the arduino works is as long as it is getting power it will always be processing which works to our advantage because we need it to always be looking out for colour and send the information it receives to the spike for execution. Our design was inspired by a simple car design with forward turning wheels. The steering system was the biggest challenge for us because we would like for it to be as straight as possible but most steering systems have a lot of play which makes the robot start to drift to one side which will end with us hitting the wall. At the end we decided as I stated earlier to use the rack in the pinyard steering system with the accompaniment of the gyro which makes ours very smooth and fast which is just what we need.

For our qualifying round the robot Drives as max speed it drives straight till it sees a colour with the colour sensor, if the colour it sees first is orange then it would turn right then know which direction it will be going and continue executing that code and if the robot starts to drift too close to the wall then the ultrasonic will pick that up which is processed by the arduino and know that it has to turn the other way to avoid hitting the wall. If it sees blue then it will do the same but turn left and continue on that course. We hope to get the qualification round down in under 40 seconds. 

For our second round we now have to bring the camera into play we start of the same looking for the blue and orange but in the background we have the arduino always processing looking for the blocks if it sees red it would do a quick turn right around the block and for green it would do a quick turn left around the block and after that continue with its course. We hope to get the final round done in a minute.

After all, we had a lot of fun with this competition and have put in a lot of blood and sweat. We are very proud of how far we have come and this competition has brought us a lot closer with all the hours we have spent together. Sometimes upset and sometimes happy but at the end of the day we knew we had to keep pushing and it will all be worth it in the end. We are very grateful to have been able to participate in this competition.

